[Refine] [WIP] demonstrate using NVTXW to export internal CUPTI events to nsys-rep (#3130)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids-jni: src/main/cpp/profiler/README.md

# Spark Rapids Profile Converter Tool

This directory contains the Spark Rapids Profile Converter, a tool for converting NVTX profiling data from the Spark Rapids JNI library.

## Building the Tool

The profiler converter is built as part of the regular Maven build when `BUILD_PROFILER=ON` (default).

### Using Docker Build

From the repository root:

```bash
./build/build-in-docker clean package
```

This will build the entire project including the profiler converter.

The built executable will be located at:
```
target/jni/cmake-build/profiler/spark_rapids_profile_converter
```

### Native Build

You can also build natively if you have the required dependencies:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

To disable profiler building:
```bash
mvn clean package -DBUILD_PROFILER=OFF
```

## Usage

> 1. NvtxwEvents.h, NvtxwEvents.cpp are copied from Nsight Systems source code. They need to be kept in sync between this project and Nsight Systems.

Reviewer: I see that there are 6 `nvtxw`-related files. What about the other files?

> 2. Need to set the NVTXW_BACKEND environment variable for the libNvtxwBackend.so library in the host directory a current build of Nsight Systems. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Need to set the `NVTXW_BACKEND` environment variable pointing to the `libNvtxwBackend.so` library in the host machine running Nsight Systems. For example:
```

   > export NVTXW_BACKEND=/opt/nvidia/nsight-systems/2024.6.0/host-linux-x64/libNvtxwBackend.so

3. Run like this:

>       > ./target/jni/cmake-build/profiler/spark_rapids_profile_converter  -w -o file3021460.nsys-rep rapids-profile-3021460@jlowe-lcedt-driver.bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``(one more `)
      > ./target/jni/cmake-build/profiler/spark_rapids_profile_converter  -w -o <output_file>.nsys-rep <input_file>.bin
``(one more `)
```

# Spark Rapids Profile Converter Tool

This directory contains the Spark Rapids Profile Converter, a tool for converting NVTX profiling data from the Spark Rapids JNI library.

## Building the Tool

The profiler converter is built as part of the regular Maven build when `BUILD_PROFILER=ON` (default).

### Using Docker Build

From the repository root:

```bash
./build/build-in-docker clean package
```

This will build the entire project including the profiler converter.

The built executable will be located at:
```
target/jni/cmake-build/profiler/spark_rapids_profile_converter
```

### Native Build

You can also build natively if you have the required dependencies:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

To disable profiler building:
```bash
mvn clean package -DBUILD_PROFILER=OFF
```

## Usage

> 1. Files mirrored from Nsight Systems that must be kept in sync: `NvtxwEvents.h`, `NvtxwEvents.cpp`, `nvtxw3.h`, `nvtxw3.cpp`. Project integration files (owned here) are `nvtxw_events.h` and `initialize_nvtxw.cpp`.

Author: done
